# Sensing Aided Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces for 3GPP 5G Transparent Operation
This is a Python code package related to the following article:
S. Jiang, A. Hindy, and A. Alkhateeb, "[Sensing Aided Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces for 3GPP 5G Transparent Operation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13487)," in submission to IEEE Transactions on Communications, 2023

# Abstract of the Article
Can reconfigurable intelligent surfaces (RISs) operate in a standalone mode that is completely transparent to the 3GPP 5G initial access process? Realizing that may greatly simplify the deployment and operation of these surfaces and reduce the infrastructure control overhead. This paper investigates the feasibility of building standalone/transparent RIS systems and shows that one key challenge lies in determining the user equipment (UE)-side RIS beam reflection direction. To address this challenge, we propose to equip the RISs with multi-modal sensing capabilities (e.g., using wireless and visual sensors) that enable them to develop some perception of the surrounding environment and the mobile users. Based on that, we develop a machine learning framework that leverages the wireless and visual sensors at the RIS to select the high-performance beams between the base station (BS) and UEs and enable standalone/transparent RIS operation for 5G high-frequency systems. Using a high-fidelity synthetic dataset with co-existing wireless and visual data, we extensively evaluate the performance of the proposed framework. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach can accurately predict the BS and UE-side candidate beams, and that the standalone RIS beam selection solution is capable of realizing near-optimal achievable rates with significantly reduced beam training overhead.

# License and Referencing
This code package is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). 
If you in any way use this code for research that results in publications, please cite our original article:
> S. Jiang, A. Hindy, and A. Alkhateeb, "Sensing Aided Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces for 3GPP 5G Transparent Operation." arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.13487 (2022).
